README.md, before:

# NexChat

NexChat is a chatting application that provides a real-time communication using socket.io and it stores user's details and messages in an encrypted format using MongoDB database. It provides a features like user can set an avatar for their profile and emoji 
support along with messages enhancing user's experience

## Tech Stack

- **Client:** React JS
- **Server:** Node JS, Express JS, Socket.io
- **Database:** MongoDB

## Preview
### 1. Register Page
![chat-app](public/src/assets/nex-1register.png)
### 2. Login Page
![chat-app](public/src/assets/nex-1login.png)
### 3. SetAvatar Page
![chat-app](public/src/assets/nex-1avatar.png)
### 4. Welcome Page
![chat-app](public/src/assets/nex-1welcome.png)
### 5. Chatting Page
![chat-app](public/src/assets/nex-1chat.png)

## Project Setup

1. Clone the repository:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/DivineKushaL/chat-app.git
cd chat-app
 ```
2. Install the necessary dependencies:
```bash
cd public
npm install
cd ..
cd server
npm install
```

3. Run the App

 Navigate to server directory and start the server
 ```bash
cd server
npm start
```

 Navigate to public directory and start the application
```bash
cd public
npm start
```

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## Deployment

WeatherSphere is deployed using render and can be accessed at [NexChat](https://nexchat-1-1x8i.onrender.com).

Commit message:

docs: document env vars for custom server URL

README.md, after:

# NexChat

NexChat is a chatting application that provides a real-time communication using socket.io and it stores user's details and messages in an encrypted format using MongoDB database. It provides a features like user can set an avatar for their profile and emoji 
support along with messages enhancing user's experience

## Tech Stack

- **Client:** React JS
- **Server:** Node JS, Express JS, Socket.io
- **Database:** MongoDB

## Preview
### 1. Register Page
![chat-app](public/src/assets/nex-1register.png)
### 2. Login Page
![chat-app](public/src/assets/nex-1login.png)
### 3. SetAvatar Page
![chat-app](public/src/assets/nex-1avatar.png)
### 4. Welcome Page
![chat-app](public/src/assets/nex-1welcome.png)
### 5. Chatting Page
![chat-app](public/src/assets/nex-1chat.png)

## Project Setup

1. Clone the repository:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/DivineKushaL/chat-app.git
cd chat-app
 ```
2. Install the necessary dependencies:
```bash
cd public
npm install
cd ..
cd server
npm install
```

3. (Optional) Configure environment variables

If the server is exposed via a public URL (for example using ngrok),
create a `.env` file inside the `public` folder and set:

```bash
REACT_APP_CUSTOM_SERVER_URL=<your server url>
```

Ensure that `CUSTOM_CLIENT_URL` in `server/.env.local` points to the URL
where the React application is served.

4. Run the App

 Navigate to server directory and start the server
 ```bash
cd server
npm start
```

 Navigate to public directory and start the application
```bash
cd public
npm start
```

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## Deployment

WeatherSphere is deployed using render and can be accessed at [NexChat](https://nexchat-1-1x8i.onrender.com).
